
   GENTLE 97

   Gentle Compiler Construction System 3.0
   Copyright (C) 1992, 1997  F.W. Schroeer


   WELCOME TO THE GENTLE COMPILER CONSTRUCTION SYSTEM
   --------------------------------------------------

      Gentle is a high-level compiler construction system
      that is widely used in industry and research.
      Various commercial products have been constructed with Gentle.

      The Gentle compiler description language covers the full spectrum
      of compiler construction. It supports

      * language recognition,
      * definition of abstract syntax trees,
      * construction of tree walkers based on pattern-matching,
      * smart traversal,
      * simple unparsing for source-to-source translation, and
      * optimal code selection for microprocessors.

      Gentle provides a uniform framework for all of these tasks.

      The Gentle compiler construction system translates high-level
      specifications into portable and efficient Lex, Yacc, and C code,
      thereby relieving users from the need to deal with
      implementation details.
      The language has been designed to enable errors to be detected
      as early as possible; this drastically reduces debugging effort.
      The underlying methodology proves to be a useful guideline
      in compiler projects. Users report that Gentle significantly
      increases productivity.  Because the uniform framework makes
      the language simple and easy to learn,
      Gentle is also well suite for education.


   LICENSE
   -------

      GENTLE 97 is freely redistributable.
      It may be used at no charge for the production of free software
      as well as for personal and educational purposes.
      See the file `LICENSE' for the conditions.


   INSTALLATION
   ------------

      See the file `INSTALL' for instructions how to install Gentle.

   DOCUMENTATION
   -------------

      Gentle is documented in:

	    Friedrich Wilhelm Schroeer
	    The GENTLE Compiler Construction System
	    R. Oldenbourg, Munich and Vienna, 1997
	    142 pages, DM 44.00
	    ISBN 3-486-247034-4

      The file `docs/BOOK.ps' contains a PostScript version of this book.
      This distribution also contains an online version of the book,
      see `docs/html/BOOK.html'.

      See the file `USAGE' for a first example how to use Gentle.


   FURTHER INFORMATION
   -------------------

      Gentle is being actively maintained and supported.
      For up-to-date information visit

	    http://www.first.gmd.de/gentle/

      Please feel free to send your questions to the author.



   Friedrich Wilhelm Schroeer               Berlin, November 1997
   friwi@first.gmd.de

   GMD German National Research Center for Information Technology

